hey guys this is a late night video
chorded in the punishing summer heat
after midnight it's past midnight but it
still go very hot and very humid here in
the home on the border between China and
Myanmar got a letter from a supporter on
patreon I just want to say really
briefly this video was going to be in
reply to that letter I do appreciate the
support and the feedback conversations
again through patreon
I appreciate the intellectual
stimulation I get by interacting with
patreon supporters feedback I get ideas
for new videos letters like this one
that I reply to and also fundamentally
yes the donation one one dollar per
month each person each person just
contributes window of month without that
I would devote much less time to making
videos on YouTube so I appreciate that
the most obvious sense thank you guys
for donations thank you for support
without you in many ways this channel
would not exist but in some ways it
would that's sort of another time
this letter fundamentally is asking
about political leadership in veganism
and the difficulty of supporting a
particular organization given who the
leader is I will read some parts of the
letter and I will reply to that I have a
background of scholar of Buddhism very
often when you're doing research in
Buddhism you have to explain to people
and not just once maybe not just twice
you have to explain again and again the
doing research into a particular
Buddhist temple into a particular
Buddhist community or a particular
Buddhist tradition let's say does not
mean that you're an adherent it does not
mean that you're a supporter it means
that you're doing research it means that
you want to learn from that experience
that precedent that example and if
you're a good researcher if you're
actually unbiased engaged in original
research you're not just a cult flunky
pretending to be an academic if you have
a lot of impetus studies you've got a
terrible research horrible advisors
research but if you're doing legitimate
research and Buddhism very often to
explain to people hey I'm here to look
at the good and the bad I'm here to look
at the ways in which this organization
is a success I'm going to look at the
ways in which is a failure I'm here to
look at the whole picture and see what I
can learn from it probably to apply to
other circumstances now this experience
prepares me for the difficulty the
awkwardness and veganism of explain to
people look I'm the kind of guy who
actually does download and read the
annual financial report from Petta
People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals
am I going to donate money to petaa no
am i adherent am i a believer no in the
same way that i think it's really
important for researchers to evaluate
analyze etc a given buddhist institution
i think it's really important for us as
vegans the movement progresses to look
at those precedents to look at those
examples look at where the money comes
from and where it goes in what ways
they're successful always their failures
to the best of our ability we don't have
that many examples to learn from and
Etta
people physical treatment animals is a
major major example so even if you hate
Etta it would be great if you can set
aside that hatred and really try to
learn from what their example has to
teach us why would I do that well for
one thing it's crucial if you want to
your own cost projections it's crucial
if you want your own feasibility study
so I just wrote within the last few days
to an organization called go vegan world
go vegan world they're mostly known for
advertising campaigns in Europe big
posters billboards you know paid
advertising human it's supportive of
veganism and they have managed to
bankroll that through the donations it's
a very interesting precedent I don't
know enough about them to tell you
whether or not I believe in them whether
or not support them whether I become an
adherent or become a donor so I don't I
genuinely don't know enough of their
organization etc but that's a precedent
that's an example I want to study I want
to learn from and for sure you know
again well let's say you're living in
Canada or let's say you're living in
Pittsburgh or if you're living and you
wonder could we do something like that
could we do something with similar
impact
could we get organized and do
fundraising I have some similar outcomes
well it's it's crucial to be able to
look at comparable examples break down
the costs ultimately construct a
feasibility study financial projections
how much will it cost how sustainable is
if you wanted to take that for one year
or five years what's it going to take
and what difference is it going to make
the input and the outcomes it's crucial
but the fact that I research credit that
way doesn't mean I'm a blind follower of
peda the fact that I want to research in
other positions for instance direct
action everywhere that way and learn
from their experience learn from that
precedent learn from both their
successes and their failures both those
goods made of course I'm not a supporter
of direct action everywhere most you
guys watching this flow already be aware
that I have a playlist with different
critiques of different aspects of
Detroit in general but of course in some
ways there are success and there are
important aspects of their success also
WLAN so although that haven't been said
I have this letter from patreon
supporter and he is living in Greece he
writes that there is an organization in
Greece with real potential and it's
called the vegan Union he gives me the
name in Greek of course the leader of
this group engages in genuinely
political thinking activism she has
written letters to governor's about fur
she wrote another letter to a newspaper
that published an article claiming that
vegans are insane or mentally ill so
she's taking on a role of championing
the vegan cause in the mainstream press
there and in mainstream politics
electoral politics ultimately so he
comments this role that the leader of
this group is playing reminded me of the
things we've discussed in your own video
creating a parallel to the future of the
vegan movement and the past of gay
rights organizations particularly rights
organizations they can so the video is a
living - is my vegan manifesto you can
find that in a playlist section of this
channel but yeah my vegan manifesto
title is on community
it breaks down and discusses those
issues that he's alluding to all right
however the leader of this group he's
found out some disturbing things about
her political views alien just leave it
that he's leery of her political views
as she's expressed them on the record
publicly she likes to treat racism
sexism and speciesism under one banner
she speaks in terms of social justice
and an intersectional approach to
veganism she engages in activism along
the lines of shining herself by the neck
in a public square
protesting topless etc so not his cup of
tea she yeah and there are other
examples here for kind of demonizing
white males engaging in I guess you'd
say stereotypical social justice warrior
rhetoric different things that raise red
flags for Adam races is concerned okay
so she's also involved in organizing
festivals in both Athens and
Thessaloniki so very positive and the
person writing to me hopes that despite
these differences despite these concerns
these things that raise an eyebrow frame
he hopes is someone he can collaborate
with that's his word is collaborate with
okay so he asked what my opinion would
be because I've spoken in other videos
about putting your differences aside for
the sake of the future of the movement
but um he's very concerned the
difference between his idea of effective
activism and her idea effective activism
will make any kind of collaboration
impossible okay so I want to come back
into her collaboration here's the
problem do you really think I can
collaborate with a bunch of Buddhist
monks who have their own temple even if
I do the fundraising even if I'm paying
the bills do you think I can collaborate
with them no it's a relationship of
authority of
command command given a command receipt
which can be quite scary for people to
deal with it means is not the secular
world we're talking about this is
religious authority and religious
politics it's a very very different
world I knew one woman I know many
examples of this but there's one in
particular thing on I knew one woman she
did all the fundraising for a Buddhist
temple in Canada and in the end she was
heartbroken it was over years so
fundraising especially in the Chinese
community and the monks running this
temple they sure wanted that money and
they sure would tell you whatever you
want here to get the money at your
pocket but then once they had the money
and once they finished building the
temple and everything they would refuse
very simple requests for her for example
she wanted to take a group of
schoolchildren on a tour of the Buddhist
temple and give them some lectures about
the history of Buddhism educational
outreach project and monks refused now
it may sound like a small thing which
you lose heart program well it's not a
collaboration it's not they are in
charge they give orders and you take
them and you may be a donor and yeah you
may be a scholar and you may be in for
munch and all kinds other feeders but
they're in charge and the inequality
between you is absolute and they don't
even have to answer your questions right
could I ever support direct action
everywhere having done a fair bit of
research on including talking to former
members you know verbal communication
with thee who know inside information
about how the organization operates and
of course looking at their videos and
reading your articles you know direct
action everywhere is a precedent in the
history of the beacon movement I want to
learn from one one from what their
success and their failures the Goodman
benefit ultimately there's no way I
could ever become an adherent I could
ever become a supporter or here room a
donor of direct action everywhere
because of one man and that one man is
Wayne cm I've read his articles and I
really think he's an idiot his articles
are astoundingly poorly written
astoundingly poorly reasoned and I do
also disagree with them you know very
fundamentally in many ways
you can see videos on this channel
already discussing that the Direct
Action Network playlist the founding
director of the FBI this is an American
term the FBI is an important
organization in American politics the
founding director of the FBI said an
organization ultimately is the shadow of
just one man he said that many many
times not just once he said it when he
was giving training and motivational
lectures to new recruits apparently it's
tragic to face up to that it's tragic to
face up to the extent to which a
Buddhist temple is the shadow of just
one man most the time there's one
charismatic bunk who's the leader of all
the other monks who has all the
authority was all the power and
everything about that institution good
bad is going to reflect the temperament
and intellectual interest and decisions
of that one man and a huge organization
like the FBI can be the same way too for
good and and bad there probably is an
upper limit to it but for sure an
organization the size of direct action
everywhere is in many ways the shadow of
just one man
there's no way to extricate what direct
action everywhere is and its future
potential from the personality and
political beliefs and even rhetorical
style of one man wins young and that's
why I can study them I can do research I
can learn from that president act and
learn from their example but I could
never be their adherent I could never be
their follower that could never be their
support and I would guess that you're in
a similar situation with this group you
asked the question can you collaborate
with her that assumes the sort of
equality that I think you were going to
find totally lacking in this situation
even if it is just because she has
already created that institution she is
already the head of that history she is
the self-appointed dictator for life I
assume they don't have elections I
assume there's no possibility of
changing first I assume maybe a mom with
these small charities very often it's
one person maybe a married couple maybe
a boyfriend and girlfriend
a very small group of people who are
going to influence everything about the
institution and if you come in too late
if you're not there at the founding
meeting then you'll never be able to
collaborate them real collaboration is
incredibly difficult even for artists
even for painters even for people in the
theater it's amazing how rare it is to
have true collaboration a relationship
between equals instead most the time
what you have is one person controls the
money
one person is in a position of authority
and everyone else just coax that's the
sad fact
so his letter goes on to say I would
love to get on board and start
organizing something from meetups vegan
events get-togethers try to stay
positive for the movement chosen
positive for the community as a whole he
asks why can why can Christian so easily
have that and we can good question
question has many time Christians are
resigned to to they accept the explicit
relationship of authority the pastor and
the flock it's done by the Catholic
Church whole structure of authority and
everyone involved is assenting to and
are committed to a very contractual
relationship of leader to follower that
is in no way comparable to what we have
going on within veganism now or what
we're led without in the future on the
contrary even in your writing this
message to me you are presuming that
this woman's position of leadership is
in contention you're presuming that you
can come in and get involved with her
organization as an equal as a
collaborator and then you could
negotiate with her or change her
political beliefs you wouldn't walk into
a church and say well who's the pastor
here
well he's a problem but maybe he can
change maybe I can just walk into this
church
and change the political beliefs of the
pastor the nature of the APB outreach
and charity work the discharge shows
that you could come in as a collaborator
at the top and that's also why these
people are likely to treat you with
hostility
you don't realize it because what you're
trying to do is positive but from their
perspective what you're trying to do is
hostile and morally wrong it would be
the same thing if I got involved with
direct action everywhere and I was
trying to change their organization from
the inside out or from the top down I
don't have that right I can be a critic
I can be an observer I can be a
researcher I can be an analyst I can
offer my thoughts I can try to learn
from their example but actually I would
be doing something immoral if I was
getting involved in an organization and
confronting Wayne Siong and challenging
his leadership he created that
organization he created the rules it
functions by and in a sense I'm
respecting him just by keeping my
distance I would not want to lead a
mutiny within the wreckage anymore and
I'm not joking when I say this to you
even though your attitude is totally
positive Chinese and positive in the
future I'm writing this letter to me
your attitude is actually radically
incompatible with what it would take to
become a follower and adherent a donor a
supporter in this woman's vegan
organization in Athens and that's what
she's looking for
she's not looking for a collaborator
she's not looking for someone to come in
and challenge her political beliefs her
chosen methods her paradigm effective
activism and when you show up and that
is who you are and that is how you act
that is how you talk
she is almost certainly going to respond
with absolute hostility even if you are
literally donating money even if you
were literally donating so much money
that you're building her Buddhist temple
that you're paying her bills because
you'll be a threat to everything she
believes in everything she works hard to
create explicitly and implicitly the
reasons why that Institute
now exists